docs(how-to): database instances with private networks (#224)
scaleway/docs-content: storage/database/api-cli/configuring-private-networks-using-api.mdx

---
title: Configuring Private Networks on Database Instances using the API
description: This page explains how to configure Private Networks on Database Instances using the API
dates:
  validation: 2021-11-16
  posted: 2020-11-16
---

<Message type="requirement">

- You have an account and are logged into the [Scaleway Console](https://console.scaleway.com)
- You have a [Managed Database](/storage/database/concepts/#managed-database/)
- You have [generated an API key](/console/my-project/how-to/generate-api-key/)

</Message>

With [Private Networks](/network/vpc/quickstart/), you can configure your own Layer-2 network with IPv4 adresses. This feature allows you to enhance the security of your architecture, by isolating it from the Internet. 

> Scaleway Database Instances now support Private Networks as a Beta feature. This document will guide you through the steps to configure the Private Network feature on a Scaleway Database Instance through the API. For more information how to configure Private Networks for Database Instances from the Scaleway Console, follow [this guide]()

Reviewer: link missing after "follow [this guide]()"

> Scaleway Database Instances now support Private Networks as a Beta feature. This document will guide you through the steps to configure the Private Network feature on a Scaleway Database Instance through the API. For more information how to configure Private Networks for Database Instances from the Scaleway Console, follow [this guide]()

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Scaleway Database Instances now support Private Networks as a Beta feature. This document will guide you through the steps to configure the Private Network feature on a Scaleway Database Instance through the API. For more information on how to configure Private Networks for Database Instances from the Scaleway Console, follow [this guide]()
```

## Creating a new Private Network for the Database Instance

1. Click **Private Networks** in the **VPC** section of the side menu.
2. Click the **Create a Private Network button**. The creation wizard displays.
3. Complete the following steps in the wizard:
  * Enter a **Name** for your Private Network, or leave the randomly-generated name in place. Optionally, you can also add tags to help you organize your Private Networks.
  * Choose an **Availability Zone**, which is the geographical region where your Private Network will be deployed. 
  <Message type="important">
  
  Make sure that your Database Instances are geolocated in the same Availability Zone as your Virtual Instances, to be able to add them to the Private Network.

  </Message>

> 4. Click **Create a Private Network** to finish. Your Private Network is created. You are taken back to the Private Networks dashboard, where your new Private Network is now displayed in the list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Click **Create a Private Network** to create your Private Network. You will be redirected to the Private Networks dashboard, where your new Private Network will be displayed in the list.
```

Reviewer 2: 4. Click **Create a Private Network**. You will be redirected to the Private Networks dashboard, where your new Private Network will be displayed in the list.

5. Copy the ID of Private Network, as you require it in the next steps:
  <Lightbox src="scaleway-pn-dbaas-01.png" alt="" />

## Creating a new Database Instance with a Private Network endpoint

> 1. Run the commands below using a terminal to create a new Database Instance with Private Network endpoint. Make sure you replace the variables with the appropriate data.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Run the commands below using a terminal to create a new Database Instance with a Private Network endpoint. Make sure you replace the variables with the appropriate data.
```

      \"init_endpoints\": [
        {
          \"private_network\": {
            \"service_ip\": \"$PN_VIP\",
            \"private_network_id\": \"$PN_ID\"
          }
        }
      ]
  }"
  ```

2. Retrieve the ID of your newly created Database Instance from the Scaleway console. You can find it on the Database Instance information page:
  <Lightbox src="scaleway-pn-dbaas-02.png" alt="" />

3. Run the commands below using a terminal to connect the Database Instance to the Private Network. Make sure you replace the variables with the appropriate data.
  ```bash 
  export SCW_TOKEN="<SCALEWAY_SECRET_KEY>"
  export RDB_INSTANCE="<RDB_INSTANCE_ID>"
  export REGION="fr-par"
  export PN_ID="<PRIVATE_NETWORK_ID>"
  export PN_VIP="<PRIVATE_NETWORK_VIP_CIDR>"
  
  
  curl --request POST \
  --url https://api.scaleway.com/rdb/v1/regions/$REGION/instances/$RDB_INSTANCE/endpoints \
  --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  --header "X-Auth-Token: $SCW_TOKEN" \
  --data "{
    \"endpoint_spec\": {
      \"private_network\": {
        \"service_ip\": \"$PN_VIP\",
        \"private_network_id\": \"$PN_ID\"
      }
    }
  }"
  ```

<Message type="tip">

> Private Networks are also available on [Virtual Instances](https://www.scaleway.com/en/virtual-instances/). Follow [this guide](/compute/instances/how-to/use-private-networks/) to attach an Instance to a Private Network and configure a persistent IP address on it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Private Networks are also available on [Instances](https://www.scaleway.com/en/virtual-instances/). Refer to the page on [how to use Private Networks ](/compute/instances/how-to/use-private-networks/) to attach an Instance to a Private Network and configure a persistent IP address on it.
```

</Message>

## Deleting a Private Network endpoint

Once the Private Network endpoint is connected to your Database Instance, you can retrieve more information using the [GET endpoint](https://developers.scaleway.com/en/products/rdb/api/#get-e2ee4c) API call.

<Message type="tip">

You can use the `jq` tool to filter the output or search for `endpoints` section as shown below.

</Message>

1. Run the commands below using a terminal to retrieve information about the endpoints.
  ```bash
  export SCW_TOKEN="<SCALEWAY_SECRET_KEY>"
  export RDB_INSTANCE="<RDB_INSTANCE_ID>"
  export REGION="fr-par"
  
  curl --request GET \
  --url https://api.scaleway.com/rdb/v1/regions/$REGION/instances/$RDB_INSTANCE \
  --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  --header "X-Auth-Token: $SCW_TOKEN"  | jq '.endpoints'
  ```

> 2. Copy the Endpoint ID you want to remove.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
2. Copy the endpoint ID you want to remove.
```

  ```bash
  endpoints: [
      {
        "ip": "192.168.0.40",
        "port": 3306,
        "name": null,
        "id": "de89f8f7-148d-4b0a-82b5-94690bf7733f", <----------------------- This is the PN Endpoint ID
        "private_network": {
          "service_ip": "192.168.0.40/24",
          "private_network_id": "7967de7a-3891-4803-9382-fa3456b567a4"
        }
      },
      {
        "ip": "51.159.74.177",
        "port": 57855,
        "name": null,
        "id": "2afd91bd-c91f-473d-8a40-ae22e7015703"
      }
  ]
  ```

> 3. Delete the Endpoint.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
3. Delete the endpoint.
```
